---
title: 'Making the web more beautiful, fast, and open through great typography'
date: '2017-02-14T08:35:03.764Z'
layout: post
draft: true
place: blog
tags:
  - WebFont
  - Typography
categories:
  - Web UI
coverPhoto: "/running.jpg"
---
**We believe the best way to bring personality and performance to websites and products is through great design and technology. Our goal is to make that process simple, by offering an intuitive and robust directory of open source designer web fonts. By using our extensive catalog, you can share and integrate typography into any design project seamlessly—no matter where you are in the world.**

### Discover Great Typography
Our font directory places typography front and center, inviting users to explore, sort, and test fonts for use in more than 135 languages. We showcase individual type designers and foundries, giving you valuable information about the people and their processes, as well as analytics on usage and demographics. Our series of thematic collections helps you discover new fonts that have been vetted and organized by our team of designers, engineers, and collaborators, and our default sort organizes fonts based on popularity, trends, and your geographic location. You can also create your own highly customized collections by filtering families, weights, and scripts, plus test color themes, and review sample copy. Collections can be shared, making it easy to collaborate on projects and ensure typography is optimized and streamlined throughout the design and engineering process.

### Collaborate with Open Source
All the fonts in our catalog are free and open source, making beautiful type accessible to anyone for any project. This means you can share favorites and collaborate easily with friends and colleagues. Google Fonts takes care of all the licensing and hosting, ensuring that the latest and greatest version of any font is available to everyone.

### Make the Web Faster
Google Fonts makes product and web pages run faster by safely caching fonts without compromising users’ privacy or security. Our cross-site caching is designed so that you only need to load a font once, with any website, and we'll use that same cached font on any other website that uses Google Fonts.

Using the code generated by Google Fonts, our servers will automatically send the smallest possible file to every user based on the technologies that their browser supports. For example, we use WOFF 2.0 compression when available. This makes the web faster for all users—particularly in areas where bandwidth and connectivity are an issue. Now everyone can enjoy the same quality and design integrity in their products and web pages, no matter where they are in the world.
